# my_chess_probe

Introduction

I've started playing chess about 5 months ago with the chess.com site, and I've encountered the plateau rating of mine and got stuck there for a while. That's why this project is aiming to find the hamartia of my chess.com games. First of all, I've gathered the data with Selenium and Bs4 by scraping my profile and the all the Blitz and Rapid type games' reviews which are also evaluated by Stockfish except a few minority. The data included several variables like the ratings, accuracy of both ends, evaluations , moves, blunders, misses, mistakes, date, time, opening and dependent variable result. In EDA testing part, missing values are handled, and new variables such as detecting the characteristics of the games based on the evaluations and moves is tested. Time of the day, rating differences are measured for their impact on the result of the games. In the hypothesis testing, for my initial hypothesis, T-Test and Whittney U Test is done on Italian like openings for both white and black (mirrored) with the accuracy associated with my games since the most frequently moves I play is that. Chi-Square test on time of the day and the result, and openings with result is tested. For ML part, first blundered move and win binary variable is checked with logistic regression. Lastly, I wanted to check whether my predictors of the result are affective on the data; thereupon, by tuning hyperparameters, decision tree classifier is established with 86% accuracy with max depth 10 and min sample split 2 parameters. 

Findings

No significant causation is found between italian like openings that I frequently play with the results of my games. However, the time of the day and a slight difference in rating between me and my opponent had a greater effect on the failure than any other. Other than the weaknesses stemming from lack of knowledge upon some openings, most of the failure of the games presumably comes from biological time and psychological pressure I am on.
